README.md, before:

# Options

This extension adds fields to indicate whether options are used and other information about options.

## Usage

A buyer may have a right – but not an obligation – to additional purchases from a supplier while the contract is valid.

The `tender.hasOptions` field can be set to `true`, and the `tender.options.description` field can describe the options for additional purchases. `hasOptions` and `options` can also be set on `Lot` objects in the `tender.lots` array.

For example, a contract may concern a thousand uniforms, and the buyer may have the option to request an additional hundred uniforms. This may be useful if, when initiating the contracting process, the buyer doesn't yet know whether a planned increase in staff will take place.¹

## Legal context

The [Revised Agreement on Government Procurement](https://www.wto.org/english/docs_e/legal_e/rev-gpr-94_01_e.htm) (GPA) includes: "each notice of intended procurement shall include … d. a description of any options".

The European Union is a [party](https://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/gproc_e/memobs_e.htm) to the GPA, and as such its [Directive 2014/24/EU](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2014.094.01.0065.01.ENG) (Public contracts — setting out clear ground rules) includes: "Part C: Information to be included in contract notices … 7. … Where appropriate, description of any options."

## Example

```json
{
  "tender": {
    "hasOptions": true,
    "options": {
      "description": "The buyer has the option to buy an additional hundred uniforms."
    }
  }
}
```

## Footnotes

¹ Usage guidance is adapted from [eForms technical specifications](http://ec.europa.eu/growth/content/targeted-consultation-eforms-next-generation-public-procurement-standard-forms-0_en).

## Issues

Report issues for this extension in the [ocds-extensions repository](https://github.com/open-contracting/ocds-extensions/issues), putting the extension's name in the issue's title.

## Changelog

This extension was originally discussed as part of the [OCDS for EU profile](https://github.com/open-contracting-extensions/european-union/issues), in [pull requests](https://github.com/open-contracting-extensions/ocds_options_extension/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed) and in <https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/issues/691>.

Commit message:

Add minProperties, minItems and/or minLength properties

README.md, after:

# Options

This extension adds fields to indicate whether options are used and other information about options.

## Usage

A buyer may have a right – but not an obligation – to additional purchases from a supplier while the contract is valid.

The `tender.hasOptions` field can be set to `true`, and the `tender.options.description` field can describe the options for additional purchases. `hasOptions` and `options` can also be set on `Lot` objects in the `tender.lots` array.

For example, a contract may concern a thousand uniforms, and the buyer may have the option to request an additional hundred uniforms. This may be useful if, when initiating the contracting process, the buyer doesn't yet know whether a planned increase in staff will take place.¹

## Legal context

The [Revised Agreement on Government Procurement](https://www.wto.org/english/docs_e/legal_e/rev-gpr-94_01_e.htm) (GPA) includes: "each notice of intended procurement shall include … d. a description of any options".

The European Union is a [party](https://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/gproc_e/memobs_e.htm) to the GPA, and as such its [Directive 2014/24/EU](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2014.094.01.0065.01.ENG) (Public contracts — setting out clear ground rules) includes: "Part C: Information to be included in contract notices … 7. … Where appropriate, description of any options."

## Example

```json
{
  "tender": {
    "hasOptions": true,
    "options": {
      "description": "The buyer has the option to buy an additional hundred uniforms."
    }
  }
}
```

## Footnotes

¹ Usage guidance is adapted from [eForms technical specifications](http://ec.europa.eu/growth/content/targeted-consultation-eforms-next-generation-public-procurement-standard-forms-0_en).

## Issues

Report issues for this extension in the [ocds-extensions repository](https://github.com/open-contracting/ocds-extensions/issues), putting the extension's name in the issue's title.

## Changelog

### 2020-04-24

* Add `minProperties`, `minItems` and/or `minLength` properties.

This extension was originally discussed as part of the [OCDS for EU profile](https://github.com/open-contracting-extensions/european-union/issues), in [pull requests](https://github.com/open-contracting-extensions/ocds_options_extension/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed) and in <https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/issues/691>.
